Dear All,

The next Advisory Board meeting is confirmed for 2pm (CEST) at the SwissTech Convention Center, VIP room.

Here are directions on how to get there:
https://meeting.artegis.com/lw/CustomContent?T=1&custom=1451&navid=21504&event=12913

The Agenda is confirmed as follows:

1. Welcome (Seth Tisue, acting chairperson)
2. Report on Scala Center Activities (Sébastien Doeraene, Executive Director)
3. Financial Report (Sébastien Doeraene, Executive Director)
4. Election of Officers
  1. Chairperson
  2. Secretary
  3. Technical Advisor
5. Report on recent community issues (Bill Venners)
6. Other community feedback (Rob Norris, Bill Venners)
7. Any other business
8. Date of next meeting
9. Closing remarks (Chairperson)

I will be unable to attend the meeting on Tuesday (as I am giving a workshop at Scala Days), and Seth will chair the meeting, with Adriaan acting as secretary.

This will also be my last message as chair of the Scala Center Advisory Board. On Tuesday there will be elections for the roles of chair, secretary, and technical advisor, but I won't be standing for re-election, as one of several steps I'm taking to reduce my commitments for next year.

It's been a great pleasure to serve as Advisory Board chair over the last three years, during which time the Scala Center's work has been guided by this board, and I'm satisfied that our recommendations have enabled the Scala Center to become a hugely relevant and valuable organisation in supporting the Scala programming language, for the benefit of both its commercial and non-commercial users.

I'm grateful to Sébastien, Martin and Seth, and to Heather, for their commitment to the board and its processes, and to everyone who has sat on the board since its inception: it's been a pleasure and an honour working with you all, and I hope to remain in touch. I will likely be less visible in the Scala community after this year, but please don't hesitate to reach out to me at any time. In particular, I wish my successor well, and will be happy offer any support I can to help them fill the role.

With much gratitude to you all,

Jon
