## Minutes of the 2nd meeting of the Scala Center, Q3, 2016

Minutes are
archived [on the Scala Center website](https://scala.epfl.ch/records.html).

## Executive Summary

The following agenda was distributed to attendees:
[agenda](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/agendas/002-2016-q3.md).

New board members from SAP, Tapad, and Twitter were present.

Scala Center activities for the past quarter included hiring four
engineers and launching three successful MOOCs.  Scaladex and the new
SIP process were launched as well.  Efforts are underway on the Spark
MOOC, the SLIP process, code rewriting for Dotty migration, Scala.js
integration for front-end developers, conceptualizing a "Scala
platform", and starting a series of Scala ecosystem hackathons.

The following proposals were voted on and adopted:

* SCP-001: Native Execution of Scala/Spark via LLVM
* SCP-006: Compile Time Check of Serializability

Other topics discussed included the Scala license, presentation
compiler support for Scala macros and for Dotty, ScalaBridge, and
expanding the advisory board to include more community seats.

## Date, Time and Location

The meeting took place virtually, via Google Hangouts, at 5:00pm (Lausanne time)
on Tuesday, August 9, 2016.

Minutes were taken by Seth Tisue (secretary).

## Attendees

### Attendees present

The following new board members were present:

- Rami Akkad, SAP
- Stu Hood, Twitter
- Dag Liodden, Tapad

Other board members and officers present:

- David Grove, IBM
- Alexy Khabrov, Nitro
- Heather Miller, EPFL
- Adriaan Moors, Lightbend
- Martin Odersky, EPFL
- Tim Perrett, Verizon
- Jon Pretty, EPFL
- Raúl Raja, 47 Degrees
- Bill Venners, Artima

Also present:

- Nakul Jindal, IBM
- Jakob Odersky, IBM
- Denys Shabalin, EPFL
- Seth Tisue, Lightbend

### Apologies received

- Jonathan Perry, Goldman Sachs

## Proceedings

### Opening Remarks

As chairperson, Jon Pretty conducted the meeting, made the opening
remarks, and asked all participants to introduce themselves,
including the following new board members:

* **Stu Hood** has been at Twitter for five and a half years.  He is
  primarily interested on the tooling experience around Scala.  He and
  others at Twitter are working on gathering input from within the
  company to bring to the board.

* **Dag Liodden** is cofounder and CTO of Tapad.  Tapad has long been
  active in the Scala community, both in New York City and more
  generally.

* **Rami Akkad** has been at SAP for 3.5 years, in Berlin.
  SAP is now investing into Scala and the Scala community.  They are
  using Scala to build a platform on which end users will build
  applications.

Also present for the first time:

* **Jakob Odersky** from IBM's Spark Technology Center attended to
  provide input on a Spark related proposal, about serialization.

* **Denys Shabalin** from EPFL attended to provide input about
  the Scala Native project.

### Reports

#### Scala Center Activities

As Executive Director, Heather Miller summarized Scala Center
activities since the last meeting.

There are four new employees:

* **Julien Richard-Foy**, previously at Zengularity, known for his articles and talks about Scala
* **Ólafur Geirsson**, recent MS graduate of EPFL, author of the formatting tool [scalafmt](https://github.com/olafurpg/scalafmt)
* **Guillaume Massé**, already previously an independent contractor at the Center working on Scaladex
* **Jorge Vicente Cantero**, recent BS graduate from EPFL, contributor to research projects there

At the last meeting, a proposal was accepted for the Scala Center to
coordinate the SIP (Scala Improvement) and SLIP (Scala Library
Improvement) processes.  Jorge has successfully restarted and reformed
the SIP process.  The first SIP meeting was in July, with another
meeting scheduled in August; for details, see
[this blog post](http://www.scala-lang.org/blog/2016/07/20/sip-summary-minutes.html).
Jorge is now working on a redesigned SLIP process, inspired in part by
the Haskell Process.  The SLIP committee will be separate from the SIP
committee.  SLIP goals include: providing a "batteries-included"
distribution aimed at newcomers and providing infrastructure and
scaffolding to commonly-used community libraries to help them thrive.

(Raúl asked if we could see the proposed SLIP process and the plans
for the platform. Heather said not quite yet, but soon; the Center
wants to present strong initial versions, even though they will surely
evolve further in response to feedback. They're trying hard to strike
a balance between providing structure but not being too controlling.)

A proposal was also accepted to clarify the migration path from Scala
to Dotty.  Olafur has begun working on an automatic code-rewriting
tool, [Scalafix](https://github.com/scalacenter/scalafix), that can
make changes to existing Scala code, such as rewriting uses of Scala's
procedure syntax which has been dropped from Dotty.  A first Scalafix
release is imminent.

Another initiative is ensuring the continuity of the Scala.js project.
This will be Julien's other big project besides working on the MOOCs.
He plans to focus on better-integrating Scala.js into the workflow of
front-end developers.

On the MOOC front, the newly launched courses have enrolled 123,758
students since May 23.  The completion rates are reported by Coursera
in an odd and difficult-to-summarize form, but are high.  The Spark
course will launch within the next month.  Julien is working on the
capstone project for the Progfun classes; that should launch by the
end of September.

Scaladex launched version 1.0 on the same day as the meeting.  There
were hundreds of users daily even during development, before the
launch.  The following short video (1.5 minutes) shows off Scaladex
features: https://youtu.be/TBoJivIJsbU . Additional features
are planned.

The center plans to hold a series of Scala Ecosystem Hackathons.  A
future blog post will describe this in more detail, but the goal is to
have library authors guide new contributors, in person, through the
process of pair programming together to create their first pull
request for that library.  Preliminary trials will be run at Scala
World and Lambda World and another trial is planned for Scala
Exchange.  (Alexy from Scala by the Bay expressed interest in
participating as well.)  The goal is to make these events "portable
and repeatable" so they can be run in cities everywhere.

#### Scala Center Financial Statement

EPFL provided the Scala Center with seed funds for the first year,
providing for two employees and a part-time
administrative assistant.  This funding is kept separate from money
from companies and primarily funds the MOOCs.

There are now nine advisory board members. 225K CHF of funds has been
received from board members; 225K CHF more is in process.  As of August
1st, these funds are now being used to fund developers (see the list
of new hires above).  Two advisory board members very roughly equals
the ability to hire one engineer.

The hope is that funds from the MOOCs will replace the first-year EPFL
seed money.  Coursera takes a cut of course fees.  So far about 900K
CHF has come in.  From that Coursera takes half and EPFL takes a
sixth.  That leaves a third for the Center, but production costs must
be repaid from that amount.  The exact eventual amounts aren't known
yet; it's working its way through the EPFL system.

Rami asked if advisory board funds go entirely to engineer salaries,
or also to costs like equipment and travel.  Heather says
approximately 5K CHF is allocated per engineer for equipment
and travel, such as conference attendance. Most infrastructure
is already provided directly by EPFL.

### Scala Center Proposals

Proposal texts are in the
[proposals](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/tree/master/proposals)
and
[recommendations](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/tree/master/recommendations)
directory.  The latter directory is for accepted proposals.

#### Proposal SCP-001: Native Execution of Scala/Spark via LLVM

proposed by IBM's Spark Technology Center

Presented by Dave from IBM. Would it be practical to use Scala Native
to run Spark jobs, compiled to LLVM?  The main goal would be improved
performance.  How much of the language and standard library will work?
How is Denys's work progressing?

Denys said the Scala Native project is now exactly a year old and was
open-source three months ago.  Since the open-sourcing, a community
has sprung up and over 100 pull requests from 19 contributors have
been merged.  The project is close to a 0.1 release; see the
[0.1 milestone](https://github.com/scala-native/scala-native/milestone/5)
on GitHub for details.

"Essentially all" of the Scala language is supported, just like
Scala.js.  There are still a few semantic differences from JVM, but
those are considered bugs and are being addressed.  The main reason to
not release 0.1 yet is incomplete support for core JDK libraries:
stuff in java.lang, java.util, java.io, and java.nio that is
essential.  In particular, we don't want to force people to use native
APIs to do I/O.  "There is still lots of work to be done" on this and
assistance is welcome: from the Scala Center, from companies, and from
the community.  Work on the JDK libraries is "parallelizable" across
contributors.

The library reimplementation work is done "clean room" style, using
Oracle documentation but without ever consulting Oracle code (since
their license is GPL but Scala Native is BSD 3-clause).  There was some
discussion among the board about the legal issues around clean room
implementations. Dag suggested looking at the
[contributor questionnaire from the Apache Harmony project](http://harmony.apache.org/auth_cont_quest.html)
and said "The legal implications... need to be iron clad early. If
this will form the basis of native Spark, for instance, enterprises
will need proper legal indemnification."  This was seconded by Tim.

Jon asked if instead of implementing Oracle's API, if a new API
could be invented, and then implemented on all back ends.  Denys
explained his reasons for not choosing this path; mainly, that
it would require convincing all Scala library authors to switch
to the new API.

Stu asked if the API implementation would be reusable by the Scala.js
project.  Denys said JavaScript is such a dissimilar target that there
isn't much opportunity to share code.  "Such sharing is a harder task
than it initially seems", but perhaps some sharing can happen
"long term".

Denys is also working on implementation Java reflection, though this
has been "controversial".  Only a subset of common operations will
be supported.  It will be necessary for users to statically declare
ahead of time what they will be reflecting on at runtime.

Jon asked if Scala reflection might be supported as well.  Denys
thought this would probably be too ambitious.  Java reflection is
simpler, is "frozen" in its design, and is much more commonly used.

Heather addressed the issue of whether the Scala Center has enough
resources for this.  It seems possible, and Jorge is interested,
after the SLIP process is running.  Dave will try to find out
whether the Spark Technology Center can provide direct assistance.

**Outcome:** Adopted, by a 7-2 vote (1 board member not present)

#### Proposal SCP-006: Compile Time Check of Serializability

Jakob: "In our work with Spark, we run into this issue all the time."
Serialization errors happen at runtime; we want to catch them at
compile time.  He showed slides with motivating example. The most
common scenario is a class that can't be serialized because it refers
to an identifier from a non-serializable enclosing scope.  The usual
workaround is to locally alias the identifier.  Another scenario is
accidentally capturing a value that can change later, when you meant
to capture the current value.

The Spores proposal
([SIP-21](http://docs.scala-lang.org/sips/pending/spores.html))
includes similar examples and addresses the same problem.
Could SIP-21 be revived?

Heather, as one of the creators of spores, addressed the status of
SIP-21.  It has not progressed recently.  In the context of Java
serialization (as opposed to Scala Pickling, which Spark doesn't use),
the main limitation of spores is around transitivity -- if an
enclosing scope in turn captures something else.  Proper transitivity
checking needs a compiler plugin; macros aren't enough.  "I would go
with a compiler plugin," she said.  Another possible solution path
would be to use Scala.meta's macro annotations, but it's unclear if
that's the right path.  There was some further discussion of technical
details between Raúl, Stu, Heather, Jakob, et al.

Writing an initial version of a compiler plugin would take "a couple
months"; does the Center have the resources?  Jorge might be
interested, but he might be allocated to Scala Native.  Maybe
Guillaume?  Heather will ask him.

**Outcome:** Adopted, by a 8-1 vote (1 board member not present)

### Other business

#### Proposals and process

Jon observes that all proposals so far have been adopted. Does that
mean we aren't getting enough proposals?

Jon asks that future proposals devote more attention to estimating
time and budget requirements.

Stu suggests allowing a longer time for review and comment on
proposals, before the board has to vote. Heather agreed.

Rami says SAP intends to submit proposals soon; Stu said the same of
Twitter.

Bill received a
[meta-proposal](http://ensime.github.io/contributing/center/), from
Sam Halliday from the ENSIME project, incorporating several topics
around licensing and tooling.  That's the source of the next few
agenda items (on the Scala license, the presentation compiler, and
sbt).  These topics could eventually become concrete proposals.

#### The Scala license

Bill summarized Sam's licensing concern as follows.  Scala uses
[the BSD 3-clause license](http://www.scala-lang.org/license.html),
which doesn't mention patents.  The Scala CLA does address patents.
"This is concerning because there is no guarantee to recipients of the
Scala compiler and standard libraries that they have the right to use
the software without being liable to pay a patent royalty," wrote
Sam.  Apache License covers patents in the license itself. Could Scala
be changed to a Apache 2 license?

"I don't think we can relicense," said Adriaan.

Heather said she forwarded Sam's questions to the EPFL technology
transfer office and in their opinion, having the separate CLA doesn't
cause any major legal loopholes or problems for EPFL.

Seth wanted a clearer writeup of what the problem is and what
the proposed fix us.  Relicensing would be hard, so we need
a clear benefit.

Tim: "Licensing is definitely a big deal, relicensing is a big deal,
since it affects all users and contributors."  And "The purpose of the
CLA is to protect the receiver of the contribution" so "it makes
sense" that the CLA would have stronger wording than the licensing.

Martin: "I can quickly say what the risk of this would be.  Generally
from EPFL it's very hard to do an Apache license, and EPFL is one of
the copyright holders for Scala.  EPFL has a patent office and holds
patents.  Having to have EPFL check every Scala release for issues
with EPFL's patents could create long delays for every Scala
release."

Consensus: no further action on this for now.  Bill will communicate
this to Sam.

#### Presentation compiler for Dotty

Sam wrote, "It is concerning that Dotty does not yet have a
presentation compiler. Without a presentation compiler, it could mean
the end of the road for both ENSIME and Scala IDE."

Martin told us that Microsoft and IntelliJ have a new standard for how
an IDE should interact with a presentation compiler. "It would be
interesting" to see if we could implement that standard", but "right
now nobody's working on that because we simply don't have the people
and resources", but "I would definitely like to be able to do it".
He also said that Dotty is better designed than the old compiler as a
host for a presentation compiler.  It has been designed "from the
ground up" for incremental changes, for a quickly changing codebase.

Raúl: "I think that this is very important because a lot of the
community depends on ENSIME. Other IDEs like IntelliJ may not be
affected."

There was general agreement that yes, we are interested in receiving a
formal proposal on this.

#### Macros in the presentation compiler

Sam wrote, "The current presentation compiler is sadly lacking in the
area of macro support."

Martin: "macros are still experimental" and "nobody's very happy" with
the current API, so it would really be better to put the energy into
Scala.meta and have everyone support that.  Scala.meta is also "the
most important" thing we need for "smooth migration from Scala 2 to
Dotty".

So, it sounds like there could be interest in a proposal centered
on Scala.meta.

#### Support for sbt development

Sam wrote, "It is no secret that the Scala compiler is slow...  An
efficient incremental compiler... could speed up the workflow for
developers... sbt is a critical part of most build pipelines and it
includes an incremental compiler... It would be beneficial to all
Scala developers if the Scala Center could provide the resource to
help sbt and IDEs integrate with each other via sbt-server."

Adriaan reiterated Lightbend's support of sbt development: on a 1.0
release.  The ambitions for sbt server have been "scaled down" to
something "more achievable".

There wasn't clear interest or disinterest from the board, but no
one spoke up strongly in favor.

#### ScalaBridge

Bill briefly described the new
[ScalaBridge](http://www.scalabridge.org) effort.  Its goal is
"Building an inclusive Scala community with introductory programming
workshops for women", modeled on RailsBridge.

Heather said she's in communication with Kelley Robinson about it,
about the curriculum design and about rallying the community around
it.  For the most part, they are doing fine on their own without a lot
of Scala Center involvement, but Heather is "investing time" and wants
to "bring visibility" to it.

Alexy: "SF Scala supports it fully and so will Scala by the Bay and
surely other community vehicles."

#### Adding more community delegates to the board

At the last meeting, adding an additional delegate was suggested.  Jon
now suggests we should consider having "as much as a quarter" of the
board be community-based.  "As a board, we need to have legitimacy in
the community. we don't want to be seen as purely acting in the
interest of large commercial entities."  Adriaan: "Agreed with Jon we
should balance OSS & commercial."

There was a discussion of whether the board should invite additional
community delegates directly as individuals, and/or allocate seats to
organizations such as Typelevel to fill themselves. Alexy, especially,
spoke up in favor of a "bottom-up" process for selecting the community
delegates, instead of doing it "ad hoc".  Perhaps candidates could
compete, to strengthen legitimacy and help get new faces involved.
Rami, Dag, and others agreed "we need a process". Jon pointed out
it would be difficult to define the electorate.

The discussion was inconclusive, but there was consensus to invite at
least one additional individual directly very soon, but to continue
revisiting this issue in the future.

### Closing remarks

See you in Q4 -- perhaps in coordination with
[Scala by the Bay](http://scala.bythebay.io), in November?
