# Minutes of the 5th meeting of the Scala Center, Q2 2017

Minutes are [archived](https://scala.epfl.ch/records.html) on the
Scala Center website.

_The following is a summary of the meeting which took place on Tuesday 30
May 2017. After the meeting, it was discovered that part of
the proceedings had not been undertaken correctly, and the outcome was
subsequently reviewed. This is explained in detail in the Addendum._

## Summary

The following agenda was distributed to attendees:
[agenda](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/agendas/005-2017-q2.md).

Scala Center activities for the past quarter included progress on:
Scastie, Zinc, sbt, the Scala Improvement Process, the Scala Platform
Process, the Scala and Scala Center websites, Scalafix,
direct-dependency-only compilation, the 2.13 collections overhaul,
Scala.js, Scala Native, the Spark and Capstone MOOCs, and ecosystem
"open source sprees".

Full details on these activities are in Heather's
[report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V7DL4RQFC1ckLoVZC0zVym4SX2fN8ExfzbGT2R-dJig/edit?usp=sharing).

Martin Duhem has been hired as an engineer and will initially work on
Scala Native.

Three new proposals were made:

* [SCP-010](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/proposals/010-compiler-profiling.md): Better Compilation Performance Information (James Belsey)
    * voted on and accepted
* [SCP-011](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/proposals/011-debugging-symbols.md): Debugging Position Information (Miles Sabin, on behalf of Lars Hupel)
    * discussed; postponed for further consideration; _please also see the Addendum_
* [SCP-012](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/proposals/012-improve-sbt-learning-materials.md): Improve Resources for Learning sbt (Bill Venners)
    * withdrawn after discussion


## Date, Time and Location

The meeting took place at 2:00pm on Tuesday, May 30 at the Bella
Center in Copenhagen.

Minutes were taken by Seth Tisue (secretary).

## Attendees

### Attendees present

Board members and officers physically present:

- James Belsey, Morgan Stanley
- Stu Hood, Twitter
- Raúl Raja Martinez, 47 Degrees
- Adriaan Moors, Lightbend
- Jeff Olchovy, Tapad

Participating remotely were:

- Thomas Gawlitza, SAP
- Jonathan Perry, Goldman Sachs
- Bill Venners, community/Artima

Officers:

- Heather Miller (director), EPFL
- Martin Odersky (technical advisor), EPFL
- Jon Pretty (board chairperson), Propensive
- Seth Tisue (secretary), Lightbend

Not present:

- Lars Hupel, community/Typelevel
- Tim Perrett, Verizon
- Frederick Reiss, IBM

## Proceedings

As chairperson, Jon Pretty conducted the meeting.

### Activities

As Executive Director, Heather Miller summarized Scala Center
activities since the last meeting.

Staffing levels at the Scala Center are the same as last quarter with
the exception of new employee Martin Duhem, who will initially work
on Scala Native.

Most of Heather's remarks were based on her
[detailed report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V7DL4RQFC1ckLoVZC0zVym4SX2fN8ExfzbGT2R-dJig/edit?usp=sharing)
on the Center's recent activities.  The following notes are a
supplement to her report.

**Scastie**: Heather demoed the latest UI.

**Scala Platform**: Some progress items are in the report, but Heather
explained that Jorge has focused mostly on sbt and zinc instead
recently, but Travis may be able to help pick up the slack.

**Scala Native**: Seth asked about the possibility of compiling
scalac with Scala Native. Heather said they're interested but
there isn't a ticket on it yet.

**open source sprees**: Heather says the name was changed from
"hackathon" to emphasize that it can serve as an introduction to
working on open source and multiple open source projects are involved
at each spree.

### Election of Officers

Jon Pretty (chairperson), Martin Odersky (technical advisor), and Seth
Tisue (secretary) were re-nominated and unanimously re-elected.  There
were no other nominations.

### Financial Statement

See
[Heather's report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12OVlurMc7ivYPYthjxaT0rjj1s2PN6T6pL8WIJegbus)
for details and figures on the Center's financial situation.

### Proposals

#### SCP-010 Better Compilation Performance Information

Proposed by James Belsey from Morgan Stanley.  (He also credited Rory
Graves and Mike Skells.)

See the
[proposal text](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/proposals/010-compiler-profiling.md)
for details. Also, there was some pre-meeting discussion between board
members and community members
[on the pull request](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/pull/26).

On the pull request, in response to Stu's question about stable,
long-lived compiler benchmarks, Adriaan said "We at Lightbend have
been working on this. We haven't announced because it's still in
progress", but a blog post on this work is coming soon.

During the meeting itself, James also responded to Stu's concerns
by emphasizing that most developers are unlikely to contact the Scala
team directly with specific performance concerns.

Martin and Adriaan voiced support for the proposal; Martin suggested
some additional metrics that could be tracked.

Heather says Jorge is excited about working on this, but it will
have to be balanced against his sbt/zinc and other work.  The proposal
itself leaves the effort level unspecified; Heather suggests half an
engineer for a quarter, then assess.

In the voting at the end, Twitter abstained but the rest of the board
members present voted in favor.  This was a sufficient number of votes
despite absences, so the proposal is accepted.

#### SCP-011 Debugging Position Information

Drafted by Sam Halliday and proposed via Lars Hupel (who couldn't make
the meeting).

See the
[proposal text](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/proposals/011-debugging-symbols.md)
for details. Also, there was some pre-meeting discussion
[on the pull request](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/pull/21)
involving Iulian Dragos, Wiesław Popielarski, Sébastien Doeraene, and
others.

Concerns and questions raised included:

* How does IntelliJ manage to support some of this already?
  Do we need to consult with JetBrains on this?
* Is solvable in a sufficiently standardized way, across IDEs?
* James Belsey said that .NET has good support here
  and "it makes a huge difference in debugging".
* James Belsey asked about async debugging (e.g. with `scala-async`),
  but Adriaan thought that was probably a separate proposal.
* Heather was concerned about whether this is tackle-able in
  the short term with the available engineers.

(Much of the discussion is indistinct on the recording of the meeting,
so this isn't an complete representation, unfortunately.)

"I don't feel like we have enough knowledge" yet on this, commented
Jon.  The board voted on whether the proposal was ready for a vote,
and the majority thought it was not, so the proposal isn't rejected,
just postponed for possible future consideration. There was
substantial praise for the proposal from multiple board members.
Stu Hood emphasized the importance of giving quality feedback to
the proposers.

#### SCP-012 Improve Resources for Learning sbt

Drafted by Jon Pretty and proposed via Bill Venners.

See the
[proposal text](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/proposals/012-improve-sbt-learning-materials.md)
for details.

Could this be a MOOC? Heather explained that we need to distinguish
between initiatives funded by EPFL/MOOC money and those financed by
advisory board funds.

Martin felt strongly that sbt is not a suitable subject for an
EPFL-branded MOOC.

James Belsey said that even though Morgan Stanley uses sbt, only a
small number of their developers actually need that much expertise on
it.  If they're a typical shop in that respect, then the audience for
more learning materials might not be that large.

Jeff Olchovy says sbt is used heavily at Tapad, and he has presented
on sbt at several Scala conferences.  He supports the proposal because
he thinks the existing sbt documentation is lacking for beginners, not
for more advanced users.

Heather says that when Jorge gathered feedback about sbt, some of the
feedback was about documentation.  So some documentation improvements
could actually happen just as part of his general sbt work.

Seth felt that although more and better sbt materials would be good to
have, he thinks the previously accepted proposal
[SCP-008](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/proposals/008-websites.md)
is far from completed and is higher priority, and that any available
writing and editing resources should go there first.

Some further discussion is indistinct on the meeting recording.  In the end,
Bill withdrew the proposal on Jon's recommendation, based on the
feedback.

### Other business

Stu Hood praised the stepped-up communication and increased transparency from
the Scala Center in recent months.

### Closing remarks

Jon reminded everyone to please let potential new board members know about the
Center and encourage them to join.

Planning of the next meeting will happen later.

## Addendum

Following the meeting, it emerged that the criterion upon which a majority of
attendees voted to postpone the acceptance vote of
[SCP-011](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/proposals/011-debugging-symbols.md)
(despite broad support)—that JetBrains (as the developers of the most popular
IDE for Scala) should be involved in the discussion—was ill-founded, as
JetBrains had worked closely with Sam Halliday in the drafting of the proposal.

This was not clear to the attendees in the meeting as GitHub (where many of
JetBrains' could be seen) was not functioning at the time, and the member
making the proposal (Lars Hupel) was unable to be present in the meeting.

Jon felt that had this been known during the meeting, many of the attendees
would have voted differently, and subsequently invited all voting members of
the board to review the decision to postpone the proposal. All voting members
were informed of the new information, and asked firstly whether they would like
to overturn the earlier decision to postpone the vote, and secondly (regardless
of their answer to the first question), whether they vote to accept the
proposal as a recommendation.

The respondents voted unanimously (with 3 abstentions) to overturn the decision
to postpone the vote on the proposal, and voted 7-1 (with 3 abstentions) in
favor of accepting the proposal as a recommendation.
[SCP-011](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/proposals/011-debugging-symbols.md)
has therefore been adopted as a recommendation.

