Dear Advisory Board Representative,

The first Scala Center Advisory Board meeting shall take place at on Monday, 9
May from 2pm to 4pm (EDT) in New York. The exact location shall be confirmed
shortly.

Attendance
----------

In general, for any Advisory Board meeting, all members should either:

a. attend in person,
b. attending virtually, by voice or video call,
c. nominate an alternative representative to attend in lieu, or,
d. choose to have no participation.

We have now received details about attendance from all our members.


Virtual Attendance
------------------

Some Advisory Board members will be unable to attend in person, and we shall
involve such members via video link using Google Hangouts. We will send a
calendar invitation to all attendees in good time before the meeting which will
include a link to join the meeting.


Submission of Proposals
-----------------------

Proposals for recommendation to the Advisory Board may be submitted at any
time, but the Advisory Board will only consider proposals submitted up to three
working days before the meeting. The deadline for proposals for the next
meeting shall therefore be 2pm (EDT), Wednesday, 4 May.

Proposals should follow the format laid out in the proposal template[1], and
should be submitted either by email to Jon Pretty[2], or by pull-request to the
Advisory Board repository on GitHub[3].


Proposal Constraints
--------------------

As this will be the first meeting of the Advisory Board, and the first
opportunity of its kind for members to submit proposals for recommendation, we
expect that the number of proposals submitted may be higher than is likely for
subsequent meetings.

Our capacity, as a small nonprofit organization funded by our members, puts a
hard constraint on which recommendations made by the Advisory Board we are
capable of implementing within our means. So in order to set expectations
appropriately, we will look to conclude the first meeting with a set of
recommendations that does not exceed our capabilities.

In particular, during the Advisory Board meeting, only limited time will be
available for discussing each proposal, so in order to focus our attention on
the most important items, we are advising that each member limit their
submissions to that which can be discussed within approximately ten minutes. We
expect that a proposal involving significant work is likely to take a full ten
minutes of discussion, whereas more modest proposals may be able to move to a
vote within five minutes. Effectively, this limits each member to one
significant proposal or two smaller proposals.

Throughout the meeting, the Executive Director will be able to advise on the
Scala Center’s ability to undertake certain proposals.


Agenda
------

The agenda for the meeting, which will include the proposals for discussion,
shall be sent to all representatives approximately two working days before the
meeting.

All proposals under consideration will be available to read at this time, and
we request that all attending delegates be familiar with the proposals in
advance of the meeting. Preparing summary responses to each of the proposals
would be useful to ensure discussion takes place efficiently, but is certainly
not required of attendees.


The Meeting
-----------

The first Advisory Board meeting will be a learning process for all of us, but
we are nevertheless making every effort for the meeting to run effectively the
first time. The meetings will have a semi-formal structure, primarily to ensure
they remain focused.

Here is a brief outline of how we expect the session to run.

The meeting will open with some brief introductory words from the chairperson,
followed by reports from the Executive Director. This will be an opportunity
for the Scala Center to talk about the progress made towards our goals, and to
show off some of the work done. This should take no more than about fifteen
minutes.

We will then have a short round of elections for the three officers of the
board: chairperson, secretary and technical advisor, who will be chosen from
the attendees at the meeting. The first two roles exist primarily to ensure
that the Advisory Board meetings are functional, and require no technical
abilities, so we do not expect there to be much contention over these roles.
Martin Odersky will stand for the role of technical adviser. This section of
the meeting will take just a few minutes, with votes being cast (where
necessary) by a show of hands.

The main part of the meeting will be spent discussing, reviewing and voting on
proposals. Each will be presented in turn, roughly in decreasing order of
significance, and each attendee making a proposal will be invited to speak for
a couple of minutes on their proposal, after which the chairperson will invite
other attendees to respond. Subsequent debate may be necessary after this. In
particular, the Technical Advisor and Executive Director may be consulted for
their opinions on the feasibility of the proposal under discussion. Folling the
discussion, the chairperson will decide whether to defer the proposal to a
later meeting, or move it to a vote, which will take place by a show of hands.

The meeting will conclude with any other business, choosing a date and location
for the next meeting, and some closing remarks from the chairperson.

Further Questions
-----------------

We will be happy to give advice to our members on the process. Please address
any questions in this regard to Jon Pretty[2].

Many thanks,
Jon

-- 
Jon Pretty
The Scala Center

References
----------

[1] https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/tree/master/templates/
[2] Jon Pretty, jon.pretty@epfl.ch
[3] https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/

