Dear Advisory Board Representative,

The second Scala Center Advisory Board meeting shall take place at on Tuesday, 9
August from 5pm to 7pm (CEST).


Attendance
----------

All members should either:

a. attend virtually, by video call,
b. nominate an alternative representative to attend in lieu, or,
c. choose to have no participation in this particular meeting.

We have received confirmation from most members that they will be attending
virtually through the calendar invitation (sent on 27 June). If you have not
yet confirmed this invitation, please do so.


Virtual Attendance
------------------

For this meeting, all participants will be attending virtually, via video link.
We will notify everyone of how to join the virtual meeting in good time before
9 August.


Submission of Proposals
-----------------------

Proposals for recommendation to the Advisory Board for consideration at this
meeting may be submitted at any time up until midnight CEST on 7 August.
Proposals submitted after this deadline will be discussed at the third
Advisory Board meeting.

Proposals should follow the format laid out in the proposal template[1], and
should be submitted either by email to me[2], or by pull-request to the
Advisory Board repository on GitHub[3].

Throughout the meeting, the Executive Director will be able to advise on the
Scala Center’s ability to undertake certain proposals, which will be an
important consideration in choosing which to adopt as recommendations, and
which to reject or defer to later meetings.


Agenda
------

The agenda for the meeting, which will include the proposals for discussion,
shall be sent to all representatives on the morning of Monday, 8 August, and
will include links to all the proposals under consideration.


The Meeting
-----------

After the experience of the first Advisory Board meeting in May, we now have a
better idea of how we expect this and future meetings to proceed. This will,
however, be our first entirely-virtual meeting, and therefore remains a
continual learning and improvement process.

Here is a brief outline of how we expect the session to run.

The meeting will open with some brief introductory words from the chairperson,
followed by reports from the Executive Director. This will be an opportunity
for the Scala Center to talk about the progress made towards our goals, and to
show off some of the work done. This should take no more than about fifteen
minutes.

The main part of the meeting will be spent discussing, reviewing and voting on
proposals. Each member will be invited to present their proposal or proposals
in turn. After representations have been made for all of the proposals, the
chairperson will invite everyone to respond to each, in turn. In particular,
the Technical Advisor and Executive Director may be consulted for their
opinions on the feasibility of the proposal under discussion. Following the
discussion, the chairperson will decide for each proposal whether to
move it to a vote (which will take place by a show of hands) or defer further
discussion to a later meeting.

The meeting will conclude with any other business, choosing a date and location
for the next meeting, and some closing remarks from the chairperson.


Technical Constraints
---------------------

With more than ten people virtually present in the meeting, there will be some
challenges in ensuring that everyone has an opportunity for their voice to be
heard, without unintentionally talking over others. We will recommend that
attendees remain muted at all times, unless invited to speak by me (as
chairperson).

In addition to the video feed, we will keep a text channel open by which
participants can indicate that they would like to speak, and I will do my best
to accommodate all requests.

The purpose of these suggestions is not to overformalise the process, but to
ensure we can work through the agenda efficiently.


Further Questions
-----------------

We will be happy to give advice to our members on the process. Please address
any questions in this regard to me[2].

Many thanks,
Jon

-- 
Jon Pretty
The Scala Center

References
----------

[1] https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/tree/master/templates/
[2] Jon Pretty, jon.pretty@propensive.com
[3] https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/

