Required Actions (TL;DR)
------------------------

Please:

 1. Provide your availability, here: http://doodle.com/poll/zq75q64q3xfsgrfp
 2. Tell me your GitHub username, if you haven't received an invitation
 already.

---

Dear Advisory Board member,

The next Scala Center Advisory Board meeting is scheduled for the second half
of November, and we would like to fix a date for the meeting.

Given that we expect attendees from both the US Pacific Coast and Western
Europe, the meeting will be fixed at 4-6pm Paris / 11am-1pm New York / 8-10am San Francisco.
Suggested dates for the meeting are:

 - Tuesday, 15 November
 - Wednesday, 16 November
 - Thursday, 17 November
 - Friday, 18 November
 - Monday, 21 November
 - Tuesday, 22 November
 - Wednesday, 23 November
 - Monday, 28 November
 - Tuesday, 29 November
 - Wednesday, 30 November

Please tell me your availability for each of these dates using the Doodle tool
at the following link, so I can find the most convenient date for everyone.

  http://doodle.com/poll/zq75q64q3xfsgrfp

In the event that we cannot find a date amenable to all parties, we shall
proiritize for the availability of key participants (the Executive Director and
Technical Advisor), and request that any delegate who is unable to attend on
the chosen date sends a substitute representative, and notifies me by email in
advance.

The meeting will take place over Google Hangouts, and a Google Calendar
invitation including a link shall be sent to all attendees as soon as the date
is decided.

Attendees
---------

The Scala Center Advisory Board has grown since its inception, and given the
large number of attendees, we need to ensure the meetings run as efficiently as
possible. We request that for the third and subsequent meetings, Advisory Board
members send only a single representative to each meeting. Exceptions to this
shall be granted where the proposer of a proposal under discussion may invite
an expert to attend in order to present the proposal to the board, and engage
in the subsequent discussion.

Submitting Proposals
--------------------

For meetings held so far, invitations to submit proposals to the advisory board
were sent close to the meeting, and we have received feedback from some members
that there was not sufficient time to understand, discuss and refine proposals
prior to the meeting.

Therefore, we invite all members to submit draft proposals as early as
possible, as pull-requests to the private Advisory Board repository,

  https://github.com/scalacenter/ab

a fork of the public repository where draft proposals may be discussed with
other Advisory Board members prior to publication. Instructions on this
process are detailed in the repository's README file.

This link will not work until you have joined the repository as a collaborator.
I have invited every member whose GitHub username I have. If you have not
received this invitation, please send me your GitHub username, and I will
invite you.

Proposal Content
----------------

We remind members that the resources available to the Scala Center, and its
ability to take on new work are limited, and the choice of which proposals to
advance to recommendations should be taken selectively and discerningly.

Better specified proposals (particularly those with clear time and cost
estimations) and those most suited to being executed by the Scala Center
(rather than alternative fora) should be preferred by the board. I therefore
encourage everyone to take advantage of the few weeks available before the
next meeting to ensure that any proposals submitted for consideration are of a
high quality.

The deadline for proposal submissions shall be seven days before the
next meeting. I shall be available to help with the format and process of submitting proposals.



