Dear Advisory Board member,

Happy New Year! The next Scala Center Advisory Board meeting is scheduled three
months after the previous meeting, hence the second half of February. We would
like to fix a date for the meeting.

As with previous meetings where we must accommodate attendees in timezones
between Lausanne and San Francisco, the meeting will be at 5pm UTC, or the
following times,

 - 9am, San Francisco
 - 12pm, New York
 - 5pm, London
 - 6pm, Lausanne

and will take place on a weekday between 15 and 28 February (inclusive).

Please tell me your availability for each of these dates using [this Doodle
tool](http://doodle.com/poll/pg76ud8tf7u2dmym), so I can find the most
convenient date for everyone.

In the event that we cannot find a date amenable to all parties, we shall
prioritize for the availability of key participants (the Executive Director and
Technical Advisor), and request that any delegate who is unable to attend on
the chosen date sends a substitute representative, and notifies me of the
change by email, in advance.

The meeting will be a voice-only conference call, and a link will be provided
to all expected attendees in good time.

Attendance
----------

We remind board members that they should send only one attendee to meetings.
Exceptions to this shall be granted where the member making a proposal for
discussion may invite an expert to attend in order to present the proposal to
the board, and engage in the subsequent discussion.

Submitting Proposals
--------------------

We invite all members to use the mailing list to discuss draft proposals on the
mailing list, which is hosted [on Google
Groups](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/scalacenter-ab).

All discussions on the mailing list are private to the Advisory Board, and are
not considered official communications, and we welcome keen and active
discussion on this list. All current Advisory Board members are subscribed to
the list, however, anyone in any doubt about their subscription status should
have received a notification from me immediately prior to this one.

Proposals should be submitted as pull requests to the [Advisory Board repository
on GitHub](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard) or [by email directly
to me](mailto:jon.pretty@propensive.com).

Proposal Content
----------------

We remind members that the resources available to the Scala Center, and its
ability to take on new work is limited, and the choice of which proposals to
advance to recommendations should be taken selectively and discerningly.

Better specified proposals (particularly those with clear time and cost
estimations) and those most suited to being executed by the Scala Center
(rather than alternative fora) should be preferred by the board. I therefore
encourage everyone to take advantage of the few weeks available before the
next meeting to put time into discussing draft proposals before the meeting to
try to minimize the time spent refining proposal details during the meeting.

The deadline for proposal submissions shall be seven days before the next
meeting. I shall be available until that time to offer advice on the format and
process of submitting proposals.




