Dear all,

I hope everyone had an enjoyable summer. At some point in the next month, we shall have our tenth advisory board meeting, but firstly, as you hopefully read in Martin's email last week, you will know that Heather has handed over the reins of the Scala Center to Sébastien Doeraene. If you have not already had a chance to meet him, you will get the opportunity at the next meeting.

I think I speak for the whole board when I say that Heather has done an admirable job in raising the Scala Center from nothing just over two years ago. In that time, she's been a passionate advocate for open-source software, and community spirit—which are fundamental to the way the Scala Center operates—and has created a capable, influential and prolific team of developers who are working on a variety of excellent technical solutions to some of the many problems the Scala community faces, guided, of course, by this board. None of this has happened just by chance. And for me, it's been a pleasure chairing the advisory board meetings with her at helm. So, it is with much gratitude we wish you well in your new role at CMU; thank you!

And I welcome Sébistien to the Scala Center. His work on Scala.js, both in its technical quality, and in establishing and growing a successful ecosystem around Scala.js, gives me a lot of hope for the future of the Scala Center. So I hope you will all welcome him as Executive Director, and to the board. For my part, I will do everything I can to ease the transition, so please reach out if there's any advice I can give!

I have a offered a selection of possible dates for the next meeting, starting from 21 September. Regardless of the date, the meeting will be scheduled for:

8am in San Francisco
11am in New York
4pm in London
5pm in Zurich

Please check your diaries and complete the poll below before the end of the week. Notwithstanding unforeseen circumstances, I will aim to have the date confirmed by Monday, 10 September.

https://doodle.com/poll/wdzfi4u6hfirihdt

As always, please don't hesitate to contact me with any questions!

Thank you,
Jon
