# October 10, 2018

Dear all,

I would like to leave organizing the next Advisory Board meeting a little less late next time: a few sponsors have been unable to attend recently, so I would like to offer everyone a bit more notice to try to maximize attendance.

If I recall correctly, we agreed at the last meeting to schedule the next meeting for the first half of December, so as to avoid the week of Christmas, so I have suggested a broad selection of times in the poll below:

https://doodle.com/poll/pyaiqzdn4wbzycc2

Please follow the link and share your availability. I will do my best to accommodate everyone's requirements. Anyone who has not replied in a week or so will get a reminder from me!

Also, please be reminded that Scala Center proposals may be submitted at any time. This enables more discussion to happen prior to the meeting, and means that the proposals which arise for discussion during the meeting are more likely to be in a good state for acceptance.

In particular, this could have avoided the situation at the last meeting where we considered rejecting a proposal so as to have the opportunity to vote on an alternative, whose details had not (at that time) been discussed.

I will therefore make the deadline for new proposals 14 days before the next scheduled meeting, but will introduce the possibility for anyone to submit a variation on a proposal (but not new proposals) up to 7 days before the meeting, thereby offering a full week of discussion in which a proposal may be refined.

I hope this will represent an improvement in the overall proposal and voting process.

Many thanks,
Jon

# October 30, 2018

Dear advisory board members,

Thank you to everyone who replied to my earlier email. This is a final reminder about choosing the date for the next Scala Center Advisory Board meeting. If you haven't yet replied to the poll,

https://doodle.com/poll/pyaiqzdn4wbzycc2

please do so now. It is very likely that we will choose Wednesday, 5 December for the meeting in the next few days, so if this date is problematic, please make your availability known!

Many thanks,
Jon

# November 22, 2018

Dear all,

The deadline for submitting new proposals for the next Advisory Board meeting on 5 December has now passed, and we have received one proposal:

SCP-019: Focusing on backwards compatibility for Scala 2.14 and Scala 3.0

I would recommend that everyone reads the proposal carefully. There is now a window for discussing this proposal, and for submitting a counter-proposal before a deadline exactly seven days before the meeting, on 28 November.

Proposals should be made in the form of pull-requests to the Advisory Board repository, and can simply be edits to the proposal SCP-019. The intention is that this is an opportunity to improve any proposals that come before the board on 5 December.

Many thanks,
Jon

# November 28, 2018

Dear all,

A week has now passed since the last update, and a week remains before the Eleventh Advisory Board meeting. Following the submission of SCP-019, the period for submitting improvements or alternatives to this proposal is now over, so the original submission will stand for consideration on 5 December.

If you have not done so already, I recommend spending some time to read the proposal before the meeting.

You may also have also noticed another proposal in an open pull-request from Spotify. Spotify have verbally notified us that they intend to join the Advisory Board, and we shall be glad to accept, pending receipt of the necessary paperwork, but their accession to the board has not yet been confirmed, so as things currently stand, the pull request will not be merged, and will not be considered during the next meeting. But you are welcome to engage in the conversation around the PR.

However, depending on when Spotify's membership is confirmed, I shall consider exceptionally accepting the proposal as a late submission, so as not to delay a new board member who did not have the opportunity to submit within the original deadlines. If this occurs, it will be included in the agenda, which shall be circulated a day before the meeting.

Many thanks,
Jon
