# February 6, 2019

Dear all,

The next Scala Center Advisory Board meeting will take place during the first two weeks of March. The meeting will take place at 8am in San Francisco, regardless of the date, but the time will vary by an hour in Europe, depending on daylight-saving time. (The switch date varies between Europe and the USA.) I'll confirm the times once we have chosen a date.

Please go to,

https://doodle.com/poll/c7sbsmiwxuxm9pzm

to select which dates you are able to attend. It will always be an option to delegate to someone else, should you be unable to attend. I will, of course, do my best to maximise attendance, notwithstanding preference given to key attendees (which include sponsors submitting proposals).

Finally, we welcome those submissions to the Advisory Board GitHub repository, here,

https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/

for discussion at the next meeting.

Whilst I may make exceptions, these shall be accepted until two weeks before the start of the meeting, at which point I shall announce all submissions to the attendees, then modifications of those proposals (but not new proposals) will be accepted up to one week before the meeting. I encourage everyone to submit early.

As ever, please don't hesitate to ask me about any procedural issues regarding the meeting!

Looking ahead, the Thirteenth Advisory Board Meeting (pending confirmation at the next meeting) will traditionally take place immediately before the Scala Days opening keynote in Lausanne, Switzerland, on Monday 10th June

Thanks,

Jon

# February 12, 2019

Dear all,

Just to follow up on my message last week, I haven't yet had confirmation of your availability for the next meeting on the Doodle, here:

https://doodle.com/poll/c7sbsmiwxuxm9pzm

I'm planning to make a decision on the date of the meeting in the next 1-2 days, so please fill in the form if you would like me to take your availability into account!

Thanks,

Jon

# February 14, 2019

Dear all,

Thank you for filling out the form for your availability to attend the next Advisory Board meeting. I can now confirm that it will take place on Wednesday 6 March, at the following times:

* 8am San Francisco
* 11am New York
* 4pm London
* 5pm Lausanne

Many thanks to Julien for changing his schedule to be able to attend at this time. Please expect a calendar invitation to follow.

Many thanks,

Jon

# February 20, 2019

Dear all,

Please be reminded that proposals for discussion during the next meeting will be accepted as pull requests to the scalacenter/advisoryboard repository until 4pm UTC today (20 February), or as emails sent directly to me.

As we currently have no submissions, and it would be nice to discuss something during the meeting, I'll be happy to accept proposals after the deadline, provided you notify me that you would like to submit something.

The earlier deadlines were intended to encourage more discussion prior to the meeting, and to provide the opportunity for other board members to offer alternative proposals.

Many thanks,

Jon
