# October 13, 2021

Dear board,

At your earliest convenience, please share your preference for the timing of our next board meeting: (Doodle link)

Cheers,
Seth

# October 20, 2021

2nd and final reminder: please fill out the poll if you haven't already — in just a few more days, we'll be picking a meeting date.

Seth

# October 25, 2021

There is exactly one date everyone can make! So the next meeting will be on November 10, at the usual time. I'll send a calendar invite.

Reminder: we need to pick a new chair, since Adriaan is no longer available, and since at the last meeting we ran out of time to deal with it.

Since we're meeting on November 10, any new proposals should be submitted by November 3.

Seth

## November 8, 2021

Reminder: our scheduled meeting time is coming up in less than 48 hours. The Zoom link is in the calendar invite.

We really need to elect a new chair. (We ran out of time for that last time, so I'm chairing this one meeting only.) I suggest we attempt to address this before moving on to any new business.

We'll have reports from Darja and Seb on the Center's activities, as usual.

There is one new proposal to discuss, "Refactoring", from Twitter (via rep Eugene Yokota). You can see the text of the proposal, and (if you have time) review some discussion so far at:

  https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/pull/79

Finally, there's been some community controversy in the past week, with some in the community calling on the Center for action. Darja will make some remarks about this, then let's discuss. (There is also an open thread about it on contributors.scala-lang.org.)

If there's anything else any of you think should be on the agenda, let me know.

talk to y'all soon
Seth

## November 10, 2021

Dear Seth, thank you for organizing this meeting!

Please add to the agenda:

- Scala-lang website changes, study and next steps, by Jamie (10min)

This is just a short presentation, to let the AB members know what we are planning on doing, and hoping to get support/help.

Re community issue: I ask for understanding for the fact that this is very new and fresh, and that we haven't had time to process all the aspects.

Best regards,
Darja
