# December 21, 2021

Hi All,

I hope this reaches everyone well as you’re preparing for (or already in)
holiday mode. I’m sure after this year the holiday season is a welcome one for
many to get some rest and recovery!

It’s that time again where we need to plan for the upcoming advisory board
meeting for quarter 4 of 2021. I don’t like doing this so close to the holidays,
but also wanted to quickly get this out to attempt to nail down a date earlier
rather than later. My goal is to get the date finalised the by the end of the
first week of January with the understanding that some are on break that entire
time. So, if the finalisation needs to be postponed a bit, that’s fine, but
please do fill it out as soon as possible. Keep in mind we’ve been slightly off
schedule, so while this seems close to the last meeting, we’re correcting the
schedule slightly, and should be back on track after this.

You can find the Doodle link here: (doodle link)

If you have any questions with the schedule, have topics you’d like included on
the agenda, or any other concerns, don’t hesitate to reach out.

I hope everyone has an enjoyable and safe holiday season.

Chris Kipp

# January 5, 2022

Hello Everyone!

I hope the holidays were a nice respite for everyone!

This is the final reminder to add your availability to the Doodle poll, so
please do if you haven’t yet. The goal is to finalize the date this Friday, and
then I’ll follow-up with a cal invite to get it on everyones calendars.

In other news, Rob created a proposal that you can find here on Github, so
please take a moment and read through it prior to the meeting. Feel free to
comment on it ahead of time with any concerns, questions, or thoughts.

Another reminder that if there is anything you’d like discussed or added to the
agenda for this next meeting, don’t hesitate to let us know.

Best,

Chris

# January 7, 2022

Hello Everyone!

It looks like January 28 was the most available option for everyone, so we'll go
with that! I wanted to get the invite out right away just to get it on your
calendar, but the actual agenda will be forthcoming. Once it's finalized I'll
update this invite and then also email it just to ensure everyone has access to
it, time to go over it, and time to prepare any questions or comments to be
discussed during the meeting.

Another reminder to take a look at the existing proposal by Rob and Bill here on
GitHub: https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/pull/83 and also a reminder
that if you have anything you'd like discussed or added to the agenda, please
let me know.

Looking forward to looking back at the last quarter of 2021, and putting a
bookend on it.

Best,

Chris

Join Zoom Meeting
(zoom link)

# January 19, 2022

Hello Everyone!

I hope this reaches you all well! I have below the planned agenda for the
upcoming meeting on the 28th. We have an absolutely packed agenda, so we’ll see
how this goes! There are a few things on the list that we may not get to, which
is indicated. Please let me know if I’ve missed anything or if there are any
last minute additions, and I’ll see what I can do.

- Welcome (Chris Kipp, Chair)
- Report on Scala Center Activities (Darja Jovanovic, Executive Director) 5-10 min
- Financial Report (Darja) 5 min
- Technical Report (Sébastien Doeraene, Technical Director) 10 min
- 2022 Project List and Focus (Julien Richard-Foy, Scala Center) 10 min
- Q3 Minutes - Where do we stand and thoughts about minutes in general (Darja) 10 min
- Community Delegate Terms Proposal, SCP-028 (Rob Norris, Bill Venners, Community Representatives) 15 min
- Voting for SCP-028
- Community Feedback (Rob Norris, Bill Venners, Community Representatives) 10 min
- Governance Project Updates and Stakeholder Map (Darja) 10 min*
- Introducing Adam Goodman (Darja)
- Hearing from Adam (Adam Goodman, Governance Project Consultant) 30 min*
- Closing Remarks (Chris Kipp, Chair)

If time permits
- Revisiting the Refactoring Proposal, SCP-027 (Eugene Yokota, Twitter)*
- Voting for SCP-027
- A review of old proposals (Chris Kipp, Chair)*
- Any other business

\* Darja will be sharing a form with everyone to be filled out, which will be
discussed during this time

\* Importantly, we’ll have Adam Goodman with us during this meeting. Darja will
give a full introduction during the meeting, but I’ve attached his resume for
you to have a small preview.

\* The proposal by Eugene given during the Q3 meeting was marked as “awaiting
revision”. There is no updated proposal yet, but I believe that is the plan. If
there is an update to the proposal this will be bumped from the “If time
permits” section and we’ll make time for it seeing that it was already
introduced last meeting.

\* Finally, I’ve taken some time to review the statuses of all the old proposals
since there was a fair amount that have been active for quite some time. You can
see the list of proposals that were still active here on GitHub. Some have since
been moved to completed, but there still are a few that aren’t closed that it’d
be good to have a review of (SCP-026, SCP-025, SCP-004), and a few that we
should look at to see if they deserve renewed interest or closure (SCP-021,
SCP-022). Please do take a bit of time to review these. If time permits, we’ll
dive into them.

I’ll see you all next week!

Chris
