# March 14, 2022

Hello Everyone!

I hope this reaches you all well! It’s that time again where we need to plan for
the next advisory board meeting for Q1 of 2022. My plan is to try to get this
date finalised by the end of this week (the 18th) and then work on the agenda
for next week to ensure everyone has adequate time to review beforehand. So,
please do fill out the Doodle as soon as you’re able.

You can find the Doodle here: (doodle link)

As always, if you have any question, concerns, or points you’d like added to the
upcoming agenda, don’t hesitate to reach out. If you do plan on submitting a
proposal to be discussed this next meeting I’d ask for it to be submitted no
later than Monday the 21st of March. This will ensure everyone has the necessary
time to review it.

Chris

# March 21, 2022

Hi All,

It looks like April 8th from 17:00-19:00 CET was the most commonly voted option,
so that’s the magic date!

You should have already received the invite with the Zoom link but I’ve also
included it down below. When the schedule is finalized I’ll send it along for
everyone to view and prepare.

Looking forward to virtually seeing you all!


Chris

# March 30, 2022

Hello Everyone!

I wanted to provide the agenda for the upcoming AB meeting next week. You’ll
find it below:

1. Welcome (Chris)
2. Report on Scala Center Activities (Darja) 10 min
3. Financial Report (Darja) 5 min
4. Technical Report (Julien) 20 min
5. Scala 2 Report (Seth or Lukas) 5 min
6. Revising the refactoring proposal, SCP-027 (Eugene) 10 min
  * Voting for SCP-027
7. A review of old proposals (Chris) 20 min
8. Reviewing Corporate Membership Darja 15 min
9. Any remaining business
10. Closing remarks (Chris)

Please review the proposal by Eugene and also the GitHub issue thread on old
proposals, both linked above. There are a fair amount of proposals that have
been active for quite some time that we need to collectively decide if they are
completed, stale, or what the current status is. This will help “clean up” the
proposal backlog and also provide a bit of insight on whether some of these
still plan to be tackled or not. So please come prepared to discuss the ones
that are left open in the chart.

If I missed anything that someone wants added to the agenda, please reach out.

Looking forward to virtually seeing everyone again!

Chris
