# June 2, 2022

Hello Everyone!

Two emails from me in one day! Exciting!

So, as you’re probably aware Q2 is coming to a close, which means it’s time for
the Q2 Advisory Board meeting. Same process as always, I’ve included the Doodle
invite below. Please fill in the times slots that work the best for you. Try to
have them filled in by the end of the next week (June 10th) so we can lock in a
time that works for everyone.

A calendar invite and schedule will be forthcoming after we decide on a date.

  - Doodle Link

Looking forward to discussing everything from this last quarter and virtually
seeing everyone!

Chris

# June 10, 2022

Hi All,

Just wanted to quickly send a reminder to fill our your availability in the
linked Doodle. The majority of you have yet to do so, and I want to ensure we
book a date that works for everyone. On Monday I plan to finalize the date and
send out invites.

  - Doodle Link

Thanks!

Chris

# March 30, 2022

Hello Everyone,

I hope this reaches you all well! I wanted to send the schedule ahead of time
for the advisory board meeting next week. You should have all received the
invite, but if not I’ll include it again down below:

  - Zoom Invite

You can also find the agenda below:

> # Scala Center Advisory Board Meeting, Q2 2022: Agenda
> 
> 1. Welcome (Chris)
> 2. Report on Scala Center Activities (Darja) 10 min
> 3. Report on Scala Center Governance Project (Darja) 10 min
> 4. Technical Report (Julien) 20 min
> 5. Scala 2 Report (Seth or Lukas) 5 min
> 6. Update on the discussion around the refactoring proposal, SCP-027 (Julien) 5 min
> 7. New Community Delegate Business (Chris) 10 min
> 8. A Discussion on Board member responsibilities (Chris) 10 min
> 9. Any remaining business
> 10. Closing remarks (Chris)

As always please let me know if you have any questions, comments, or concerns. I
also wanted to send out yet another reminder to send in your recommendations
for new community reps.

Looking forward to virtually seeing you all next week!

Chris
