# Communication for Q3 2022 Meeting
## August 31, 2022

Hello Everyone,

I hope this reaches you all well! The time is upon us again where the next
advisory board meeting needs to be planned. I’ve included a Doodle to find the
time that works best for everyone. Please do fill it out as soon as possible. I
aim to finalise the date by the end of next week, the 9th.

Link to Doodle

A few other items that I’d like to make everyone aware of.

- As stated by the Scala Center Membership Regulations (Article 4), the elected
    officers serve for a period of one year. Meaning that this next meeting
    we’ll need to have elections for Chairperson, Technical Advisor, and
    Secretary. Please do consider whether you feel you may be a good fit for one
    of these roles. As a reminder, those currently elected can also stand again.
- As mentioned at the previous meeting, we’d like to start hearing a bit more
    from companies. Therefore, I plan on reaching out to a couple of you to give
    a small recap of the happenings at your company related to Scala. When I
    reach out I’ll provide more detailed information on this.
- The small committee has gathered and slimmed down the list of recommendations
    for community representatives to 6 individuals and forwarded them to the
    Center for them to consider for the open community chairs. Since it’s
    unknown if those will be in place or not by the next meeting, please do let
    me know if there are any community concerns or points you’d like brought up
    during the next meeting as I do plan on having a “community input” section
    to the agenda. Many thanks for those of you that put names forward.

As always, don’t hesitate to reach out with any questions and let me know if
you’d like something added to the agenda. I look forward to the next meeting.

Chris

## September 13, 2022

Hello Everyone,

I hope this reaches you all well. While I didn’t have a lot of responses to the
Doodle, the date that seemed to work best for everyone that responded was
October 12 at 17:00 Amsterdam time. You should have received the invite, but
I’ve also pasted it below.

The agenda will be forthcoming when it becomes finalised.

Looking forward to virtually seeing you all.

Chris

## October 10, 2022

Hello Everyone,

I hope this reaches you all well! My apologies on not getting this to you
sooner, but hopefully you’ll still have time to ensure you’ve read the report
that Julien as already sent out and are prepared to come and discuss!

Below you’ll find the agenda for the upcoming advisory board meeting.

- Welcome (Chris)
- Overview on Scala Center Activities and Technical Report (Darja / Julien) 10 min
- Report on the status of community delegates (Chris / Darja) 5 min
- Scala 2 Report (Seth or Lukas) 5 min
- Overview and Discussion on Akka licensing (Lukas) 10 min
- Discussion on communication strategy for Scala (Chris / Center) 10 min
- Voting on board positions (Chris) 15 min
- Company Scala overview with Goldman Sachs (Graham) 10 min
- Company Scala overview with 47 Degrees (Rafa / Nychol) 10 min
- Any remaining business
- Closing remarks (Chris)

I want to bring a couple things to your attention that you may or may not have
noticed. The time slot for the update from the Center is shorter this meeting.
This is mainly due to a desire for everyone to fully read the report before the
meeting, come with questions, and be ready to discuss. We want to avoid having a
large chunk of the meeting just being an overview of the slides everyone has
received ahead of time.

Secondly, we will be voting for new board positions! As a remind this means a
new chair, secretary, and technical advisory. Please do consider standing for
any of these positions. If you’re interested, please send me your name ahead of
time. If you have any questions on them, don’t hesitate to ask.

Lastly, we’ll have some guests joining us probably for a few different sections.
One of those sections will be something new we’ll be starting this meeting, the
Scala company overview. As stated in the previous meeting, I’d like to have a
couple slots per meeting for companies to give the board an overview of their
Scala usage, talk about pain points, or things they’ve been working on. This is
a great time to illustrate the actual business usage of Scala, highlight what’s
important to you as a company, and for everyone to just learn a bit more about
Scala usage at your company. I’m personally looking forward to this!

As always, if you have any questions, comments, or concerns about the agenda,
don’t hesitate to reach out. If not, I look forward to seeing everyone on
Wednesday.

Chris
