# March 13, 2023

Hello Everyone!

I hope this reaches you all well! It's that time again, and we need to plan for
the Q1 advisory board meeting. I've gone ahead and created a Doodle for this
that you can find below:

<doodle link>

Please fill it out as soon as you're able. As always, please do reach out if you
have anything you'd like to discuss or if you'd like something added to the
agenda. If you've been holding onto a proposal, now is also the time to submit
it.

Best,

Chris

# March 25, 2023

Hello Everyone,

I wanted to send a quick reminder to fill out the doodle. There are very few
that have, which makes deciding on a time that works for the most quite
challenging. I plan on choosing the date at the end of Monday, so please make
sure to fill it out ASAP.

Chris

# March 28, 2023

Hello Everyone,

Thanks to all of you that went ahead and filled out the doodle. We still had a
pretty small percentage of people that filled it out, so in order to really
ensure we can get as many people as possible attending in the future, please do
fill it out when it's sent.

The date for the next AB meeting will be April 25th at 5pm CEST. You should have
received a calendar invite, but you can also find the invite below:

Topic: Q1 2023 Scala Center Advisory Board Meeting
Time: Apr 25, 2023 05:00 PM Amsterdam

Join Zoom Meeting
<link>

As always, please do reach out if you have any questions. If you have any
proposals to submit, now is the time. There will be a schedule forthcoming.

Best,

Chris Kipp

# April 20, 2023

Hello Everyone!

I'm looking forward to virtually seeing you all next week. I wanted to go ahead
and send out the current agenda. Please do let me know if there is anything
you'd like to be added.

Scala Center Advisory Board Meeting, Q1 2023: Agenda

1. Welcome (Chris)
2. Overview on Scala Center Activities and Technical Report (Darja / Julien) 10 min
3. Scala 2 Report (Seth or Lukas) 5 min
4. Updates from the community rep (Eugene) 5 min
5. Discussion on sbt community repository proposal (Eugene) 15 min
6. Voting on proposal (Chris) 5 min
7. Tooling Summit Recap (Chris) 10min
8. Company Scala overview with Morgan Stanley (Daniela) 10 min
9. Company Scala overview with Spotify (Claire) 10 min
10. Any remaining business
11. Closing remarks (Chris)

Chris
