# July 4, 2023

Hello Everyone,

I hope this reaches you all well. It's that time again to plan for the next AB
meeting. I know summer is a difficult time, but I'm hoping that the majority of
people will be able to make this one. Please try to respond to the linked
Doodle by the end of the week.

<doodle>

Best,

Chris Kipp

# July 7, 2023

Hi All,

One more quick reminder to fill out the Doodle if you haven't yet. Next week the
invites will go out.

Thanks!

Chris

# July 11, 2023

Hey Everyone,

I hope this reaches you well. Just confirming that the date that worked the best
for most people was July 26th at 5pm CEST. You should have already received an
invite, but if not you can find the Zoom link below.

<zoom link>

There will be an agenda forthcoming. Note that there was one proposal submitted
during this last period but as of this I believe it's already completed. Either
way, please take a look at the proposal for context. If it is indeed fixed then
there is no need to actual vote on it. If you would like to submit a proposal,
please do so quickly in order to give time for review.

As always, please let me know if there is anything you'd like added to the
agenda.

Chris

# July 17, 2023

Hello Everyone,

As promised, please find the schedule for the advisory board meeting next week below:
1. Welcome (Chris)
2. Overview on Scala Center Activities and Technical Report (Darja / Julien)
3. Scala 2 Report (Seth)
4. Updates from the community rep (Eugene)
5. Potential meeting in Madrid
6. Any remaining business
7. Closing remarks (Chris)

There currently isn't a lot on the agenda, so if you have anything you'd like
added, please let me know.

Looking forward to seeing you all next week!

Chris

