# January 16, 2025

Hi All,

Hoping you all had a great break over the new year celebration! Following up on
the Doodle for the Q4 meeting, please find it below:

Doodle

Hopefully we can find a time either on the last week of the month or the first
of February. Please try to respond by mid next week as I'll finalize the time
then and get invites sent out.

As always, please let me know if you'd like something added to the agenda.

Best,

Chris

# January 25, 2025

Hi All,

I hope this reaches you all well! Thanks to those of you that filled out the
Doodle. The time that everyone seemed to have available was Feb. 5th at 5pm CET.
You should have received a calendar invite already, but if you haven't I've
included the invite to this email as well. You can also find the Zoom link
below:

Zoom Link

As always, please feel free to reach out if you'd like anything added to the
agenda. There has been one AB proposal that was sent in by Eugene that you can
view here on GitHub. Try to take a look at it before the actual meeting. A full
agenda will be forthcoming.

Best,

Chris Kipp

# February 4, 2025

Hi All,

Looking forward to virtually seeing you all tomorrow! Below you'll find the
agenda:

1. Welcome (Chris)
2. Technical Report (Seb)
3. Scala 2 Report (Seth)
4. Updates from the community rep (Eugene)
5. Voting on Proposal for https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/pull/168
6. Voting on board positions (Chris)
7. Scala Center Update (Darja)
8. Any remaining business
9. Closing remarks (Chris)

If there is something last minute that you'd like added, please let me know.

Chris
