---
date: December 2019
accepted: true
status: active
---

# SCP-022: Completing SCP-11: implement JSR-45 for improved Scala debugging experience

## Proposer

Proposed by Ólafur Páll Geirsson, Twitter, December 4th 2019.

## Abstract

This is a proposal to prioritize the completion of
[SCP-11](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/master/proposals/011-debugging-symbols.md).
To reduce the scope of SCP-11, this proposal suggests to focus only contributing
JSR-45 support to the Scala 2 compiler.

[JSR-45](https://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=45) is an approved specification that
establishes standardized tools for correlating Java byte code to source code of
languages other than the Java programming language. For example, the Kotlin
compiler uses JSR-45 to improve the developer experience when working with
debugging tools and code coverage tools.

Tools in the Scala community that could benefit from JSR-45 include:

- IntelliJ Scala debugger.
- Metals once the upcoming debugging support is released.
- Code coverage tools that operate on byte code such as intellij-coverage and
  JaCoCo.

## Proposal

The end goal of this proposal is to fix issue
[scala/scala-dev#3](https://github.com/scala/scala-dev/issues/3). The Scala
Center is expected to collaborate with the Scala compiler team to ensure that
the JSR-45 implementation is well tested, documented and comprehensive (handles
cases like inlined functions).

The Scala Center should collaborate with the Dotty compiler team to ensure that
Scala 3 will also support JSR-45. Since the work on JSR-45 will mostly happen in
the compiler backend, it's likely that large parts of the implementation for
Scala 2 can be reused for Scala 3.

## Cost

Six full-time engineer months to implement JSR-45 support in the Scala 2
compiler.

On the condition that the initial implementation has been completed and
released, additional six part-time engineering months for maintenance and
support.

## Timescales

It would be nice to make progress on this project sometime within the year
of 2020.
